Having Waco as a court trip also.
But I mean, then even after that, because the court
trips then became Dallas and Fort Worth, Austin
and Houston. I don't know. I never did figure out
which one was where, but they had a court trip. I
never was on one of them. I do know that they went
into your eyes one day. for the Corps trip, and they
had a whole empty section of the Corps bleachers up
there, and the Corps didn't have that kind of money
that they were charging for those things, and
there was all these empty seats up there. The boys,
if you take 500 or 1,000 of them,
During
your freshman year, do you remember going to some
out-of-town games? No, I never went to, very
seldom went to out-of-town. Now, the WTAW was the
first one. that brought the games to any. And that
was done in the air dome. And what they did, they
used the... So you're saying the out-of-town
games would be broadcast back to the air dome?
They got some people over there at the game, and
they got the Western Union to give them a teletype.
And they would send it right there, and then this
guy would get up there and read it off, you know.
That's the way we found out about it at first. So did
y'all go over there and have fun during the game?
Oh, we'd go. No, it was in the air dome. No, I mean in
the air dome. Did you go over there? We just The only
place I, the only time I was much in that air dome was
early, they used to have some, some very glory
pictures of movies of people
on boats, you know, fighting and cutting guys open
and this thing and that thing, you know. So what had
happened was that my dad and mother would sit there
on the first row to the left over there and there was
a door right there, a great big open door and there
was clothes and so it would get to be like that and we
three would jump up and run out. And then my mother
gave us a high sign, we can come back in.
That's what the early days, the real early days of
that thing was. Now when you were a fish, was the
Aggie slang already in use? Oh yeah, the Aggie
slang. You had to wear a band, a white band. to
identify yourself as a fish, describe the kinds of
uniforms y'all wore. What did the uniforms look
like that y'all were issued then? They were
wool, standard wool. What colors? Green. No
khaki? No khaki. No, no, no, no khaki. They were
what you would call, what did you call them, green?
Was it pretty well World War I style? They had
leggings, but they didn't have to wind them. The
first one, yeah, that's right. The first ones I
got, they just buttoned up on the side, on the
outside. Now, did a freshman, a fish, wear
leggings? Yeah. And is that what you wore to class?
Yeah. Shoes, what color shoes? Brown or black?
Brown. Brown. What kind of hat? Oh, you had a big
one. Freshman, and you wore that every day? Yeah,
but you couldn't put the strap behind your head.
Why? You were an upperclassman. Ah, so you had
to... You had to wear it down on the front. And you
couldn't put it back there like that. That's the
first thing I learned. All right, now, when you did
anything on the campus during the daytime, did you
wear your uniform? Yeah. But then when you went
home for supper, you took it off? Yeah. Now, did you
come back to the campus much at night? And if so,
why? They had some different... functions there.
One of them, the reason I remember this is because
my cousin was living with us in 1930. He
was a year ahead of me. And he entered the math
contest. They had a math contest there. And if you
won the math contest, you got the gold watch. They
gave you gold. And
I remember he came home, and in our house, the
living room was here, and the big old double doors,
and then there's a stairway going upstairs. And he
came through the door there and started up the
stairs, and Dad asked him, How'd you come out?
He just held up that watch.
He was a genius at math. He understood it. I
understood math, but I never could make it
function. Now, as you and your buddies were going
to class, did you all have to whip out to every
upperclassman as you walked along the sidewalk?
Whatever they had, we did it. It didn't make any
difference. Then you had to learn their name? No.
You didn't? I never did learn. The people I knew
were the ones that were in class with me in the A
engineering, or some of the students that I was
with all the time. Describe a typical day, class
day for you. You got up at what time, ate breakfast
when, and where did you go? You just had to figure
out, you had to go figure out which room you were
going to be in. When you, when you registered, you
went and figured out where you had to go, and they
had room to specify for you. But, but living where
you lived, what time did you get up and have
breakfast? I don't remember anything. Their
mother had that thing on that table back in the
back. And you walked over to the campus. Either
walked over or Dad took us. Okay. And during the
day, did you go to class regularly? Or did you skip
class? No, we didn't skip class. So you went to
class regularly. If you had an hour that wasn't
scheduled. We went over to the. to the library. I
spent many hours in that library. Was there also a
place where you could go and maybe take a brief
snooze?
No. Where did you go to get a cup of coffee or a
Coca-Cola?
Why? Oh, yeah, they had a On the north side of the Y,
in that rounded part there, a couple of men had a
refreshment outfit. On the south side of that
thing was a barber shop. That's where I went to get
my hair cut. Now, was there a pool table also? No.
No. There was no pool. I don't remember any pool
table being on any of them campers. Did anybody go
to Northgate or Southgate to get a soft drink?
Northgate they might have, but there wasn't
anything there. All there was out there was that
Kyle Billy, which is on that side, and the one
that's where Lupo's is, I think that's the Kyle
Billy. But there was another one over there, the
red Billy, and that was about all that was there.
Except Luke and Charlie's, which was in a, where
the bookstore is. And it was just a big, all-open
store. And you could buy anything you wanted
there. I don't remember they even had...
The only thing I know we had was a Delaware Punch. We
would like that stuff.
So, I don't know. You had soft drinks, but they had
to be in a bottle. And it cost a nickel. Did you and
your buddies drink coffee much? You had several
waters. You see, the water was exactly the same
then as it is now. except that you had this fault
line up here just north of Bryan. And as that water
poured through that salt line, you picked up your
sulfur. Then they took the water, all the water
came off, and they ran it through the condensers in
the power plant to heat it up. And then they had a big
spray pond out there just south of where it was now
the power plant. It was about a couple of acres in
there.
And they sprayed it up, trying to get rid of the
sulfur. But it would still turn the silver. Now,
see, we didn't have plastic stuff in those days.
You had silver. And it turned? Turned black.
Around the household, that was one of the things
you had to do about every month. You had to go down
there and help them take the silver polish and
polish off the silver of them. Back to people,
Tommy Mayo was the director of the library.
Describe him, please. All I knew about him was he
took care of his mother. And he did that to her. his
detriment, as far as I'm concerned. I mean, no, not
to, but he did never get a family, if I know of. Was
he, was the library a pleasant place? Oh, it was
quite nice. The, what do you call it, the first one
up here? The Cushing. I was sitting in that reading
room many, many hours. About how late at night was
it open? Do you remember? It was open quite a long
way. I never was there much at night. Did you study
at home? No.
I was at that time my blood sugar was such that I was
between a normal person and a diabetic and they
mother and dad insisted you eat three meals a day
three square meals a day and therefore I never I
couldn't when after I might watch, might do
something. Of course, we had to take care of the
cows, too. That was a chore, always, and I had to do
that. And so then, I was always out.
And I finally, after the last ten years, I finally
conquered it. All right, back to another great
person on campus, Mr. Cashin. Yeah. Describe him,
please. Very fine man. I don't know.
I know, I remember what he looked like, but I...
Describe him, what he looked like. Oh, I don't
know. He was son is in the church and I see him every
time I go in there. Now, did he look more, did Jim or
Red more favor their father? Red.
He wasn't as big a man as Jim was.
See, back in those days, we never did get people
that were that big. No, everybody was smaller. You
know why, don't you? Didn't eat as much. What they
ate wasn't any good. And
we didn't, we didn't gain as much weight in the
middle as... And people did more manual labor.
Well, either labor wouldn't make any difference,
but you take bread, And they came along when I was in
high school or there, and they said, now the white
bread, they've taken all the menu and the stuff out
of it. They knew they'd milled it all out. And so
then they said, well, you've got to have whole
wheat bread. So I had the whole wheat bread. When I
went to... Around high school, I'd take my lunch
with me.
Whole wheat bread all the time. Now, you didn't
bring your lunch while you were at A&M. You didn't
bring your lunch to the campus. You went back home
to eat lunch every day? One of us was going back home
all the time. Was there, that freshman year, did
you have some teachers, some instructors that
were important to you? Some that you, who? In the
math department, his name was Martin. What made
him special? He taught me how to handle balls.
Well, it's just plain old arithmetic.
You know, he'd ask you, multiply this 13 times this
number here and how would you go about it so you
wouldn't, you could do it in your brain. He did a lot
more than that than anybody I ever saw. Who did you
turn to for academic advice? Dad. Dad? Dad. Did he
give you any guidelines? Oh yeah. When he said one
day, he says, son, you're going to be in this. I was
teaching at Tarleton. You're going to be in this
business. You've got to get your master's degree.
And I knew exactly where I was going.
I would stay in college. And so I went up there, and
they got me
with a Well, a fellowship with a steel company. And
we were studying the penetration of steel roof,
the heat penetration of steel roof. I built some
houses out there.
I did the whole works. I got a whole thesis on it, but
it was tough. It's not like it is today. Back to your
freshman year, where did you all have Yale
practice? Off the steps of the YMCA. Was there a
midnight Yale practice then? But did they also
have other Yale practices? Did you have more than
one a week? Oh, yeah. Yeah, they would have
several.
But there was not a Yale practice held in the
stadium?
Not until later years. See, that stadium wasn't
built until 29. Yeah. All that was there before 29,
there was a set of steel bleachers and then a
football field. And that football field was not
drained. And what happened was that if you played
on it a little while, the last 20 yards would be
nothing but a mud hole. Where you can. So they came
to dad. He wrote, he has a book on land drainage and
reclamation.
And
so they came to him and they said, can you drain that
field? And he said, yes. And so they said, you go
over there, and you go. And so he went to work at it.
But Dad was one of them that had his men around him,
that he knew what they could do. And so I think it was
Altamira that he used. Anyways, a student went
over there and was working at it, laying it all out.
And the official from Adelaide Republic said,
well, I thought you were going to do this. That
student knows as much about it as I do. They were
paying him 75 cents an hour. They paid that
student. That was good paying those years. That
was excellent. Yes. So you understand? That's one
thing.
Did you say that after the stadium was built, after
Kyle Field Stadium was built in 29, did they start
having Yale practice over there the night before a
game? They could have. They used it that way when
they were closed in. They actually had... They
used it for several,
where they had concerts.
Bob Hope was there in a concert. And
we had a woman here who was, she had a voice like you
wouldn't believe. Kate Smith? What? Kate Smith?
God Bless America, Kate Smith? No, I'm talking
about a person. Oh, oh. One right here. Oh. Oh. One
of the Butler girls. One of the Butler wives. I can
still hear him up there on that stage. And she was
there, and she was there. Man, she could sing. And
so he didn't do anything, but but just tease the
crowd. And he said, do you believe she can do that?
So she would sing another song. And that went on for
a couple hours. I mean, Bob Hope right there, we
paid him good money. Of course, he had some ad libs
in between and all that, you know. It was a real good
show. Do you remember when you first went to Silver
Taps? No. Did you go to Silver Taps when you were a
little kid? No. Was it held then? I don't think so.
They might have held it in the context of the
military. but it wasn't every time. Do you
remember going to silver taps then after you were
in the Corps? No, I never ever went to silver taps. I
know they do it now and that sort of thing, but I
never did. When you were a fish, did you have to
polish sully? Was that tradition around then? Oh,
yeah, but you know what happened to Sully, don't
you?
Well, when he was moved, that statue was moved up
from the, it came on the railroad. It moved
straight up that road in there, and they were
getting ready to set him on the, on that, uh, uh,
Pedestal? Yeah, pedestal.
It's not marble. It's the other...
Oh, boy. Yeah, it's not marble. It's a pedestal
made out of rock and ground. Granite? Granite. He
was sitting there. And it was the night before
Easter.
When the Corps went into Guy Hall, Sully was behind
the poker.
Did you see that? No, I didn't before I was there.
About when was that? That was probably whenever
that thing was moved in there. But when would that
have been? I would say it was about 1916 or
something like that. Okay. Now, how far back does
Guyon Hall go? When was it built? Do you remember?
It was one of the first that was around. There was
several other buildings there that were chapels.
Mm-hmm. one where Hart,
we used it for a gun, a shooting gallery. And I
remember that because,
but the trouble they had with Guyon Hall was that
the back end fell off of it. Now, was Guyon Hall here
when y'all moved here? Well, it was. It was here.
They didn't have that trouble then, but later on
they did. They had to go jack that thing back up
again. And nobody knew how Sully happened to be
moved over? No, when the Corps did something like
that, you never found out how it was. And there
wasn't any use to try. Do you remember going to
Muster, Aggie Muster, April 21st? When you were a
fish, did you help with bonfire? Yes. Describe.
Except that, yeah, I helped with a little bit. How
long did y'all work on bonfire then? How long did it
take? Well, you see, bonfire, as we know it today,
It was not that. The bonfire was nothing but
crating. Now that I know. And the reason you don't
know is that we had to use those same trees that
they're putting in the bonfire for our fuel, for
cooking, and heating the house. And to burn up the
crating and all the other trash, everybody was
glad to get rid of it. Yeah. Am I correct that people
would put their stuff out in the front for y'all
to... I don't remember anything about that. I
don't remember anything about that. But I do know
that they carried it off down there near the Old
Britain's Tower. They moved that big stone for
the... World War II. They moved it off of where the
home was at the time and they had it right in there.
What they were concerned with was they had those
three houses over there where Dr. Dean Kyle and
let's see, Dean Kyle and Dr. Marsteller and
the house doctor, whatever he was. They were
concerned about that. Now, am I correct also that
quite often they used the railroad push carts,
those flat carts to carry the trash? I would
imagine so. They were used for everything. And how
long did it take for y'all to get all that stuff? Was
it three months or two weekends or what? Well, I
think they just had a pile out there that they were
building on all the time. I mean, and they just kept
it there, and they just finally, everybody would
pitch in and give a little bit, and that's what,
that's the way it went. And about how many people
came to Bonfire? Oh, the whole thing, you know, the
Corps came. Did, did your family come over? Did
everybody in the community come over? We, yeah, we
went out there and looked at it. And even, you know,
when it was over on the, the big ones over in, on
Simpson Field, they had some pretty good-sized
ones over there that were actually trees. And then
I think they did damage the roof, I understand, on
the Memorial Student Center one night. But am I
correct that until World War II, there were not
trees, logs, it was the packing material and
rubbish? No, I would say even before that, before
they could use trees. See, the thing that you've
got to remember is that gas came in here in 1928.
That changed the whole thing up. Okay, okay. See,
because before that, when we lived up on the campus
from 1919 to 1924, it was common for Dad to get 15
cords of wood back of that house And then they had to
have a guy come in there with a forged tractor with a
big old saw on it and saw it up. I mean, the 18-inch
length or 24-inch length, depending on how you
wanted to fuel your fireplace or your... When the
gas came in, well, it all walked out. I mean, we had
in the Irish...